hey this is presto Walker in this video
I'm going to teach you a math magic
trick first pick a three-digit number
with three different digits next I want
you to reverse the digits of the number
now subtract the smaller number from the
larger number finally I want you to add
up the digits of the result focus on
this number and let me try and guess
what number you're looking at okay I'm
going to say that your number is 18 was
I correct you should have gotten to 18
if you followed the instructions
correctly if not you may want to recheck
your mat so this prediction will always
work but the question is why can you
figure it out give it some thought and
when you're ready keep watching the
video where I give an mathematical
explanation for why this trick works
let's go through each of the steps we
first pick a three-digit number with
three different digits I'll denote this
as ABC next you need to reverse the
digits of the number so that becomes CBA
we now need to subtract the smaller
number from the larger number I'll
suppose that a is larger than C so we
have a b c minus c ba if it were the
other way you would subtract c ba minus
ABC this won't affect the rest of the
video so we can go ahead and assume that
a is larger than C and we have a b c
minus c PA so how are we going to do the
subtraction we need to consider the
placeholders of each of these decimal
numbers we have the hundreds place the
tens place and the ones place let's
write each number in expanded form
the number ABC represents 100 a + 10 b +
1 c + 1 C is equal to C similarly the
number CBA will be 100 c + 10 b + 1 a
and once again 1 a is equal to a we can
now subtract out like terms to get a
result we have 10 B minus 10 B which
will be equal to 0 we then have 100 a -
a and that will be equal to 99 a we
finally have C - 100 C and that will be
negative 99 C we can factor out the 99
to get 99 times the quantity a minus C
so how do we proceed from here we need
to know what values of a - C are
possible since a is larger than C we
could have any whole number value
between 1 and 9 so if we substitute in
these we're looking at the multiples of
99 and it could be any of the possible
values so at this stage I've asked you
to add up the digits of the result and
if you do that you'll see that every
single result will always be 18 and
that's the reason that this trick works
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel and make videos on math you
can catch me on my blog mind your
decisions that you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Walker and if you liked this video
please check out my books there are
links in the video description